The Definitive Guide To User Acceptance Testing by Bugwolf
UAT: 
    Test in real world conditions by actual users, 
    taking software performance and human behavior into account

In SDLC: DEV -> QA -> UAT -> PROD

PRO:
    1. Identify issues from operational stresses that is out of the scope of functional test 
    2. Potential scale of negative impact prevented 
    3. Test system capibility in real context
    4. Customer feedback  
CON:
    1. Cost of setup up environment and recruiting tester 
    2. Cost of time
    3. Cost of training / recruiting tester

Test process:
    1. Recurit / Train Team
        Different user experience level and area of expertise
    2. Setup / Plan 
        Overall plan 
        Business goals / requirements
    3. Design Tests
        Based on details of real business requirements
    4. Implement Tests
        Before test start, verify and document test system and environment variables and configurations 
        As test proceed, record corrections required for next iteration to improve overall process
    5. Report / Evaluate 
        Measure results in matrix against acceptance criteria 
    6. Decision before system release 
        What adjustments are required?
        What are expected improvement? 
    7. Follow up with other stakeholders after system release on
        a. End-user training 
        b. Support 
        c. Roll-out plan 
        d. Workarounds
        e. User guide / tutorial / videos 

People Involved In UAT
    1. The Sponsor / Product Manager / Product Owner
        The sponsor will focus on identifying potential risks and barriers to success so that these can
        be eliminated and a positive ROI realised in terms of revenue and profit. The sponsor will also
        set the success criteria and and define test scenarios at a high level.
    2. The Manager/Managers
        delivering business results from the system in the real world
        examining the system for compatibility with existing business processes
        outline high level test scenarios over a realistic time period
        The UAT test results will also serve as a benchmark for performance of the new system.
    3. The End Users
        Operates the system
        
